Gary Lauritano
CMPT 333N Sec 111

<h1>Journal Entry 02</h1>

<h2>Solving the Goat Rope Kattis Problem</h2>
In lab today we discussed a psudo-solution to the Goat Rope Problem. Even though the solution the we came upon was mostly based in math, implementing the solution in Haskell allowed for some good practice defining/naming functions. As a basis we are given the grid coordinates of a fixed post. A goat will be attached to this post using a rope. There will be a house, which is represented as an axis-aligned rectangle on this grid/plane. We are give two sets of coordinates, which represent the diagonally oposite corners of this house. The second subset of coordinates that represent the corner of this house are guarenteed to be greater than the first subset of coordinates representing the opposite corner of this house. We are given the task of determing how long of a rope to attach to the fixed post, in order to give the goat the greatest radius of flexibility without allowing him to come in contact with the house.

<h3>Input</h3> 
The input of this problem are 3 different sets of grid coordinates given in the form of a list. The list consitsts of [x,y,x1,y1,x2,y2]. The (x,y) coordinates in the list are the coordinates of the fixed post on which the goat's rope will be attached. The second set of coordinates (x1,y1) in the list are the coordinates that will represent the lower left corner of the house. Finally, the third set of coordinates in the list represent the diagonally opposite upper right-hand corner of the house. 

<h3>Parsing Input</h3>
The first step in solving this kattis problem follows the same format as previous kattis problems. We must first determine how to parse the input, so that it is usable in later calculations. Considering that the input is orignally a string, we must break this string down and convert each individual coordinate to a double in order to use our dothework function. We can use the words function to convert a string into a list of strings. Considering the entirety of the input is considered a single string, each individual coordinate would be considered a word. The implementing the words function will give us a list of strings where each individual coordinate is its own string. Next, we can use the map and read functions in conjunction with each other to convert each coordinate to a double. The read function takes a string and parses that string into a given type, in this case we will make it a double. The map function will apply the read function to each string within our list of strings, which is each individual coordinate within our list of coordinates. 

<h3>Doing the Work</h3>
The dothework function is where the tough mathematical logic comes into play. Considering we have to diagonally opposite corners, we determined we could find the center points of the x and y coordinates using two functions called xc and yc. To determine xc we add both x coordinates of the two corners and divide the sum by 2. We do the same with the  y coordinates to determine yc. Next, we determined that we needed to find the length and width of the rectangle that represent the house. It will become apparent why later in the explanation. To determine the width of the rectangle representing the house we subtract the of the x coordinate of the greater corner of the house from the x coordinate of lesser corner the house (x2 - x1). This gives us the difference in total of the x plane, which is how wide the house is. Next, we do the same for the y coordinates of the recatangle representing the house (y2 - y1). This gives us the difference in total of the y plane, which is how tall or high the house is. In order to get from the center point of the house to a side, you must move from the centerpoint half of the height/width of the house. So, we found that the centerpoint of a side of the house was the centerpoint of the house - the width/height of the house divided by two. In our discussion as a class, we determined that in order to find maximum length of the goat's rope we needed to determine the centerpoint of the closes side of the rectangle that represents the house. This is because the maximum distance the rope is going to be allowed to reach is going to be to the closest side of the house. This makes logical sene if you think about the problem graphically or imagine an illustration of the problem. Imagine the fixed post. This fixed post has a radius. Since, the rectangle representing the house is axis-aligned, the maximum distance the rope is going to be allowed to reach is going to be where the radius of the rope attached to the fixed post and the side of the rectangle representing the house meet. The house cannot be within the radius, and if they do not meet that means that the ropes length is shorter than the maximum length possible. In other words this maximum length is going to be the distance from the fixed post to a point on the closest side of the rectangle representing the house. To find this distance we came up with two functions named xdist and ydist. Xdist would be the absolut value of the x coordinate of the fixed post minus the xcenterpoint of the house, minus half of the width. Ydist would be the absolut value of the y coordinate of the fixed post minus the y centerpoint of the house, minus half of the height of the house. Finally, to find the overall distance you square the x and y distance, add the totals together and take the quare root of that grand total. 

<h3>Showing Results</h3>
Showing results was the easiest part of this solution. Our function would take a double and out put a string. Since Haskell has a function that outputs item as a string we simply need to set our showResults function to this Haskell function. This Haskell function is show. So, showResults would equal show. Giving showResults the parameter doTheWork would output or double result as a string. 